=head1 NAME

Handel::Manual::Requirements - What you need to install to use Handel.

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This page lists the known requirements recommended software needed to use Handel.

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

=head2 Prerequisites

The following modules are required for Handel to work properly. Older versions may work fine, but these
are the versions I have installed and verified to work correctly. If you have older versions and all tests pass,
send me an email and I'll lower the version requirements.

=head3 DBIx::Class

Version 0.08 or greater.

B<Until 0.08 is released, please use the DBIx-Class-current branch from the Bast repository:>

    http://dev.catalystframework.org/repos/bast/branches/DBIx-Class-current/

=head3 DBIx::Class::UUIDColumns

Version 0.01 or greater.

=head3 DBIx::Class::Validation

Version 0.01 or greater.

=head3 Class::Accessor::Grouped

Version 0.02 or greater.

=head3 Class::ISA

Version 0.32 or greater.

=head3 Class::Inspector

Version 0.16 or greater.

=head3 Clone

Version 0.20 or greater.

=head3 Error

Version 0.14 or greater.

=head3 Locale::Maketext

Version 1.06 or greater.

=head3 Module::Pluggable

Version 2.95 or greater.

=head3 Scalar::Util

Version 0.13 or greater with weaken support.

=head3 Tie::Hash

Version 1.01 or greater.

=head3 DateTime

Version 0.31 or greater.

=head3 DateTime::Format::MySQL

Version 0.04 or greater.

This is used in the bulk of core module tests with SQLite. IF you are using another database like Postgres,
you should install the appropriate module for that database.

=head2 Optional Modules

The following modules are not required for Handel to run, although some features may be unavailable
without them.

=head3 AxKit

Version 1.61 or greater.

AxKit is only required if you plan on using Handel within XSP pages using the supplied taglibs.

=head3 Locale::Currency::Format

Version 1.22 or greater.

When present, this module allows all prices to be formatted to specific currency codes and formats. When
this module is not installed, all calls to Handel::Currency-E<gt>format will return the original value and carp a
warning.

=head3 Finance::Currency::Convert::WebserviceX

Version 0.03 or greater.

When present, this module allows all prices to be converted from one currency to another. When this module
is not installed, all calls to Handel::Currency-E<gt>convert will return undef and carp a warning.

=head3 Locale::Currency

Version 2.07 or greater.

When present, this module allows all conversion and currency codes to be verified as real 3 letter ISO
currency codes. If this module is not installed, the to and from parameters to Handel::Currency-E<gt>convert
ca not be validated, possibly resulting in unpredictable conversion results.

=head3 Template Toolkit

Version 2.07 or greater.

Template ToolKit is only required if you plan on using Handel within TT2 based websites using the supplied
TT plugins.

=head3 Catalyst::Runtime

Version 5.7001 or greater.

Catalyst is only required if you plan on using the supplied Catalyst Cart/Order models withing a Catalyst app.

=head3 Catalyst::Devel

Version 1.0 or greater.

Catalyst::Devel is only required if you plan on using the supplied Catalyst Helpers to generate scaffolding or
started code.

=head3 FormValidator::Simple

Version 0.16 or greater.

This module is only required if you plan on using the generated scaffolding code from the supplied Catalyst
Controller/Model Helpers.

B<Note: As of 0.99_07, I'm still waiting on some serious patches to FV::S to get applied or for the author to
surface. I have a private special version of this with the patches applied. Email me if you plan on using the
scaffolding.>

=head3 HTML::FiillInForm

Version 1.05 or greater.

This module is only required if you plan on using the generated scaffolding code from the supplied Catalyst
Controller/Mode Helpers.

=head3 YAML

Version 0.58 or greater.

This module is only required if you plan on using the generated scaffolding code from the supplied Catalyst
Controller/Mode Helpers.

=head2 Test Modules

The following modules are only required for the test suite when running
C<make test>.

=head3 Apache::Test

Version 1.27 or greater.

Apache::Test is used to test the AxKit XSP taglib modules.

=head3 Test::More

Version 0.61 or greater.

Earlier Test::More modules may have an issue with running the number of tests in this dist with 
'command line too long' type errors.

=head3 Pod::Coverage

Version 0.14 or greater.

The pod coverage tests may fail complaining about missing pod for methods if
Pod::Coverage < 0.14 is installed. This is due to certain syntax variations of
the pod with escaped gt/lt. I may just alter the pod and bump this version down
if there is enough feedback to do so.

=head3 Test::Pod

Version 1.00 or greater.

Test::Pod 1.00 added the C<all_pod_files_ok()> method which makes my life
easier. :-)

=head3 Test::Pod::Coverage

Version 1.04 or greater.

Test::Pod::Coverage 1.04 was made taint safe, and we run the tests with -wT
like good girls and boys.

=head3 Test::Strict

Version 0.01 or greater.

This keeps me honest and makes sure I always C<use strict>.

=head3 Test::Spelling

Version 0.10 or greater.

I can't type, or spell. This keeps the pod somewhat readable.

=head3 Test::NoTabs

Version 0.01 or greater.

Tabs are bad, m'kay? This keeps me honest.

=head3 Test::Perl::Critic

Version 0.07 or greater.

Yet another test to keep my code somewhat honest.

=head1 AUTHOR

    Christopher H. Laco
    CPAN ID: CLACO
    claco@chrislaco.com
    http://today.icantfocus.com/blog/
